6058 Changed `internet` to ~`Web`. (#6142)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/web3/index.md

---
title: What is Web3 and why is it important?

> description: An introduction to Web3—the next evolution of the World Wide Web—and why it matters.

Author: I don't know if this is technically incorrect, I think it's fuzzy, but it's certainly not any clearer or more correct.

lang: en
sidebar: true
---

# Introduction to Web3 {#introduction}

> Centralization has helped onboard billions of people to the World Wide Web and created the stable, robust infrastructure on which it lives. At the same time, a handful of centralized entities have a stronghold on large swathes of the World Wide Web, unilaterally deciding what should and should not be allowed.

Author: Again, the mixed use of the terms is confusing, especially to a novice. One of the basic rules of technical writing (I'm a technical writer by profession) is to avoid mixing terms that refer to the same thing. Pick one and stick with it. Doing otherwise creates confusion.

> Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of a Web monopolized by large technology companies, Web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 puts power in the hands of individuals rather than corporations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 is the answer to this dilemma. Instead of an internet monopolized by large technology companies, Web3 embraces decentralization and is being built, operated, and owned by its users. Web3 puts power in the hands of individuals rather than corporations.
```

Author: Same comment as above.

Before we talk about Web3, let's explore how we got here.

<Divider />

> ## The early Web {#early-internet}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The early internet {#early-internet}
```

Author: If you want to discuss the early internet, then you need to talk about the US military's creation of it and universities' adoption of it. I don't think that's why you're going for here.

> Most people think of the Web as a continuous pillar of modern life—it was invented and has just existed since. However, the Web most of us know today is quite different from originally imagined. To understand this better, it's helpful to break the Web's short history into loose periods—Web 1.0 and Web 2.0.

Author: Again, this is confusing and wrong. That's why I made the changes I did.

### Web 1.0: Read-Only (1990-2004) {#web1}

> In 1989, in CERN, Geneva, Tim Berners-Lee was busy developing the protocols that would become the Web. His idea? To create open, decentralized protocols that allowed information-sharing from anywhere on Earth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 1989, at CERN, Geneva, Tim Berners-Lee was busy developing the protocols that would become the World Wide Web. His idea? To create open, decentralized protocols that allowed information-sharing from anywhere on Earth.
```

> The first inception of the Web, now known as 'Web 1.0', occurred roughly between 1990 to 2004. Web 1.0 was mainly static websites owned by companies, and there was close to zero interaction between users - individuals seldom produced content - leading to it being known as the read-only web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first inception of Berners-Lee's creation, now known as 'Web 1.0', occurred roughly between 1990 to 2004. Web 1.0 was mainly static websites owned by companies, and there was close to zero interaction between users - individuals seldom produced content - leading to it being known as the read-only web.
```

Author: Fine.

## Web 3.0: Read-Write-Own {#web3}

> The premise of 'Web 3.0' was coined by [Ethereum](/what-is-ethereum/) co-founder Gavin Wood shortly after Ethereum launched in 2014. Gavin put into words a solution for a problem that many early crypto adopters felt: the Web required too much trust. That is, most of the Web that people know and use today relies on trusting a handful of private companies to act in the public's best interests.

Author: Same comments as above.

![Decentralized node architecture, representing Web3](./web3.png)

### What is Web3? {#what-is-web3}

> Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better Web. At its core, Web3 uses blockchains, cryptocurrencies, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. [A 2020 post on Twitter](https://twitter.com/himgajria/status/1266415636789334016) said it best: Web1 was read-only, Web2 is read-write, Web3 will be read-write-own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 has become a catch-all term for the vision of a new, better internet. At its core, Web3 uses blockchains, cryptocurrencies, and NFTs to give power back to the users in the form of ownership. [A 2020 post on Twitter](https://twitter.com/himgajria/status/1266415636789334016) said it best: Web1 was read-only, Web2 is read-write, Web3 will be read-write-own.
```

Author: I don't know if it's technically incorrect, but it's not more clear and still potentially confusing.

#### Core ideas of Web3 {#core-ideas}

Although it's challenging to provide a rigid definition of what Web3 is, a few core principles guide its creation.

> - **Web3 is decentralized:** instead of large swathes of the Web controlled and owned by centralized entities, ownership gets distributed amongst its builders and users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Web3 is decentralized:** instead of large swathes of the internet controlled and owned by centralized entities, ownership gets distributed amongst its builders and users.
```

Author: I guess it's not technically incorrect. Fine.

Web3 is a young and evolving ecosystem. Gavin Wood coined the term in 2014, but many of these ideas have only recently become a reality. In the last year alone, there has been a considerable surge in the interest in cryptocurrency, improvements to layer 2 scaling solutions, massive experiments with new forms of governance, and revolutions in digital identity.

> We are only at the beginning of creating a better Web with Web3, but as we continue to improve the infrastructure that will support it, the future of the Web looks bright.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are only at the beginning of creating a better internet with Web3, but as we continue to improve the infrastructure that will support it, the future of the internet looks bright.
```

Author: Confusing -- the same sentence uses the two terms interchangeably "internet" and "Web3".
